README.md, before:

# k11h-website
the pelican files to generate k11h.de 

# running pelican on uberspace

uberspace is a berlin-located company offering a shared-user server with great tooling.

# steps to set up pelican

:zap: remember to replace `userxyz` with your actual uberspace username

## install and upgrade pelican 
```bash
pip3 install --upgrade --user "pelican[markdown]"
```

### generate pelican structure
```bash
mkdir ~/pelican && cd ~/pelican
pelican-quickstart
```

follow the interactive quickstart as shown below.  
this example uses the standard uberspace domain.     
in case you wnat to use your own domain, make sure to follow the [uberspace manual](https://manual.uberspace.de/web-domains/) for adding your custom domain first     

```
Welcome to pelican-quickstart v4.6.0.

This script will help you create a new Pelican-based website.

Please answer the following questions so this script can generate the files
needed by Pelican.


> Where do you want to create your new web site? [.] <enter>
> What will be the title of this web site? my-shiny-blogtitle
> Who will be the author of this web site? userxyz
> What will be the default language of this web site? [de] <enter>
> Do you want to specify a URL prefix? e.g., https://example.com   (Y/n) <enter>
> What is your URL prefix? (see above example; no trailing slash) https://userxyz.uber.space/ 
> Do you want to enable article pagination? (Y/n) <enter>
> How many articles per page do you want? [10] <enter>
> What is your time zone? [Europe/Paris] Europe/Berlin
> Do you want to generate a tasks.py/Makefile to automate generation and publishing? (Y/n) <enter>
> Do you want to upload your website using FTP? (y/N) <enter>
> Do you want to upload your website using SSH? (y/N) <enter>
> Do you want to upload your website using Dropbox? (y/N) <enter>
> Do you want to upload your website using S3? (y/N) <enter>
> Do you want to upload your website using Rackspace Cloud Files? (y/N) <enter>
> Do you want to upload your website using GitHub Pages? (y/N) <enter>
Done. Your new project is available at /home/userxyz/pelican
```

### modify your Makefile

append following line to the *publish* section `~/pelican/Makefile`

```diff
devserver-global:
	$(PELICAN) -lr $(INPUTDIR) -o $(OUTPUTDIR) -s $(CONFFILE) $(PELICANOPTS) -b 0.0.0.0

publish:
	"$(PELICAN)" "$(INPUTDIR)" -o "$(OUTPUTDIR)" -s "$(PUBLISHCONF)" $(PELICANOPTS)
+	rsync -a --quiet --exclude /.htaccess --delete "$(OUTPUTDIR)/" /var/www/virtual/userxyz/html 

.PHONY: html help clean regenerate serve serve-global devserver publish 
```

## usage

1. make your changes to the files in `~/pelican/content` according to the [official docs](https://docs.getpelican.com/en/latest/content.html)
2. to publish them run `make publish` in your folder `~/pelican`
3. your changes should be visible on [https://userxyz.uber.space/](https://userxyz.uber.space/)

Commit message:

add ing cron to readme

README.md, after:

# k11h-website
the pelican files to generate k11h.de 

# running pelican on uberspace

uberspace is a berlin-located company offering a shared-user server with great tooling.

# steps to set up pelican

:zap: remember to replace `userxyz` with your actual uberspace username

## install and upgrade pelican 
```bash
pip3 install --upgrade --user "pelican[markdown]"
```

### generate pelican structure
```bash
mkdir ~/pelican && cd ~/pelican
pelican-quickstart
```

follow the interactive quickstart as shown below.  
this example uses the standard uberspace domain.     

in case you want to use your own domain, please make sure to follow the [uberspace manual](https://manual.uberspace.de/web-domains/) for adding a custom domain first     

```
Welcome to pelican-quickstart v4.6.0.

This script will help you create a new Pelican-based website.

Please answer the following questions so this script can generate the files
needed by Pelican.


> Where do you want to create your new web site? [.] <enter>
> What will be the title of this web site? my-shiny-blogtitle
> Who will be the author of this web site? userxyz
> What will be the default language of this web site? [de] <enter>
> Do you want to specify a URL prefix? e.g., https://example.com   (Y/n) <enter>
> What is your URL prefix? (see above example; no trailing slash) https://userxyz.uber.space/ 
> Do you want to enable article pagination? (Y/n) <enter>
> How many articles per page do you want? [10] <enter>
> What is your time zone? [Europe/Paris] Europe/Berlin
> Do you want to generate a tasks.py/Makefile to automate generation and publishing? (Y/n) <enter>
> Do you want to upload your website using FTP? (y/N) <enter>
> Do you want to upload your website using SSH? (y/N) <enter>
> Do you want to upload your website using Dropbox? (y/N) <enter>
> Do you want to upload your website using S3? (y/N) <enter>
> Do you want to upload your website using Rackspace Cloud Files? (y/N) <enter>
> Do you want to upload your website using GitHub Pages? (y/N) <enter>
Done. Your new project is available at /home/userxyz/pelican
```

### modify your Makefile

append following line to the *publish* section `~/pelican/Makefile`

```diff
devserver-global:
	$(PELICAN) -lr $(INPUTDIR) -o $(OUTPUTDIR) -s $(CONFFILE) $(PELICANOPTS) -b 0.0.0.0

publish:
	"$(PELICAN)" "$(INPUTDIR)" -o "$(OUTPUTDIR)" -s "$(PUBLISHCONF)" $(PELICANOPTS)
+	rsync -a --quiet --exclude /.htaccess --delete "$(OUTPUTDIR)/" /var/www/virtual/userxyz/html 

.PHONY: html help clean regenerate serve serve-global devserver publish 
```

### add a cronjob to automatically publish

in case you store your pelican files in a git repository, you can set up a cronjob to auto-publish in case the remote git branch was changed    
    
1. copy the file [publish-on-change.sh](publish-on-change.sh) to your pelican folder (`~/pelican/`)

2. add following cronjob with `crontab -e`
Please refer to the offical uberspace manual for [setting up a cron](https://manual.uberspace.de/daemons-cron/).

```
* * * * * /home/userxyz/pelican/publish-on-change.sh &> /dev/null
```

## usage

1. make your changes to the files in `~/pelican/content` according to the [official docs](https://docs.getpelican.com/en/latest/content.html)
2. to publish them run `make publish` in your folder `~/pelican`
3. your changes should be visible on [https://userxyz.uber.space/](https://userxyz.uber.space/)
